The Joe Rogan experience.
I would think that, um, for a guy like you, who's building cars away,
you're you're building the real challenge would be staff.
I think that would be the real challenge is finding people that understand what
you're doing,
finding fellow artisans that also understand how to build cars that really get
what you do.
Yep. That, and, um, I love the state of California,
but they do not want me here. How so? They don't want me in business.
They don't want anyone in California making anything except maybe solar
assisted bicycles.
I did the business climate in the state of California and the associated
HR costs and in insurance and workman's comp and liabilities,
like every couple of weeks,
there's another absurd ruling that we get an update on that. Like, wait,
what it's like,
you mean to tell me if I catch a dude smoking crack while on the clock stealing
my inventory. I can't fire his on the spot. Nope. What? Oh yeah.
Now if you do,
you have to give him a week's pay at the time of letting him go and you can't
make him sign anything that indemnifies nor protects you.
You have to put them on probation and offer therapy and resources. No,
you don't. Yes.
Really catch someone stealing merchandise and smoking crack.
Like literally the most Vagrant disrespect, uh, of,
of safety of policy of company goods.
Like it has gotten so bad. And like, we just got a letter from the,
from the building inspector came by and he's like, yeah. Um,
you know, those, those automotive lifts in your building, I'm like, yeah,
he goes, yeah, you have 30 days to remove all those. What thank you.
That was pretty much my response verbatim because yeah,
you're not sewing for automotive. I'm like you see this plaque on the wall,
the Congressman Councilman and the mayor.
You see this picture of me and the mayor when he did the ribbon cutting here's
the email records showing the mayor's aid personally delivered me all my
occupancy permits because yeah, not my problem. I'm like,
what about the last nine years of inspectors coming in all the time and saying,
you guys have the cleanest,
most professional above board shop kick-ass well done.
Thank you so much for making my life good. He goes, yeah, they're idiots.
I'm the new inspector.
So the new inspector says you're not.
Licensed.
I'm not zoned appropriately to be in business where I'm at,
despite having permits and everything for it.
Did they change the zoning?
I don't know what the hell happened.
Other than this new guy seems to be a prick and wanting to show his value.
What's his.
Name?
I actually don't remember, but I literally at every turn it's killing me.
And like I piece of,
I think at this point to the amount of costs related per employee
should be going to my employees,
not to insurance companies and all this that gets tagged on top.
It's like for every dollar you pay someone. Now there's another 32 cents.
That should be going to them. That's sewing to some.
Extent when they want you to choose,
how do they expect you to work on these cars? Oh,
is this something you can fight? Are you going to have.
I had to lawyer up and we're fighting it. But I mean,
literally I honestly think they'd rather have a commercial weed
facility in that building, kicking out a hell of a lot more tax revenue than us.
Really?
Yeah. Do you think that's what they're doing? Yes.
So you really think they're trying to make it challenging for you to do business
so that.
Yes. And just about any small business owner I know in the state of California,
the challenges we're facing are getting to the point of making us wonder about
our own intellect for staying in this state. I don't want to move.
I don't want to go anywhere. I don't want to, I love it here.
So what would you do if you lose this?
You know, if it gets to the point that we, we have to, oh,
you mean this building situation, I'll fight it or a move and I'll deal.
I've been through this ship.
For a while. You find some place where you are zoned for just keep.
Partying on, but I know I'm zoned fine where I'm at. I'm just going to have to,
you know, instead of running a business, I have to now become a lobbyist and,
you know,
knock on doors and ring phones and dig through my black book to find people with
the clout to get the city to go. So.
This is kind of flexing, like.
Lit is this I think so.
And at first he seemed like he chilled out when we went above him and then
everything was good.
And then a week later bubbled back up again and we got another notice.
So we're in the middle of it right now.
But you went above his head and you got approval, verbal, verbal.
Yeah. And then city, I don't know what he's talking about. You're fine.
You're good.
To go. And then you go back again. I mean, now it's a problem. What in the?
That's crazy. But look at the end of the day,
the reality is also I'm going against what trade schools are telling young kids
that are going into the field. What are they telling kids?
They're telling kids that a here, if you run this scan tool, you'll be, uh,
you'll make 150 grand a year as a lead tech at a BMW dealership. What,
they're not telling these kids while sucking all their money out of them with
crazy, you know, student loans and stuff is, yeah.
That's like the kids in the street in Brazil,
all wanting to grow up to be paleo. There's not that many payloads.
So there's plenty of dudes at that dealership that are making minimum wage or
there abouts or dealing with the politics of flag hours or whatever. But what,
what I'm having a hard time with is we charge a hundred dollars an hour for our
labor.
I can't just keep charging more and more and more it's level of what we do with
projects that can run thousands of hours per job.
The math is it almost doesn't make sense.
Like I honestly have guys that I think should be,
I should be paying them 70, 80, 90,
a hundred grand a year to do what they do because they're artists and they
deserve it. The of running a business in California,
all of the exponential costs that are added on top,
even de-incentivize overtime. Now, if I give a dude overtime,
it ups his tax rate and they take even more out of the overtime.
Well it's whatever happened to like GDP and employment and productivity and like
keeping everything rolling there,
Dean incentivizing us even to offer our employees more money with more hours.
It's, it's tragic.
And I've lost several guys now that have gone to do jobs
that they hate, but like department of water and power,
I've lost several employees at DWP. Cause they'll get a pension,
they get killer health care,
they get 90 grand a year to pick their nose and watch other people work
sucks.
What is this? Is this a Democrat thing?
I think it might be the Uber green side of democratic,
um, because, um,
I think they'll whatever the whole two-party systems a show as it is. Anyway,
I don't think it's about which party so much is.
I think we've empowered attorneys to such an extent that it it's,
it's downright sinful because it's hindering industry.
It's hindering innovation. Um,
there's just so many constrictions cause everyone has their handout. No,
one's no one's self accountable, but everyone's liable.
So then you, you know, then you need a policy for that and this and that.
I mean, we had a, we had an employee once Suez,
he jumped in a dumpster to stomp on everything, to compress it in the dumpster.
It started moving across the ramped parking lot and he jumped
out of it, clipped his leg on the way down and shattered his arm in four spots.
Well, he sued me and it's like, well, it's not in your job description.
Did someone tell you to jump in the dumpster and stomp on it? No.
And then we discovered the guy had in brittle bones due to chemical agent
exposure in the military, but it's my problem.
Like what people, whatever happened,
like be proud of what you do be respected,
be well-paid everyone's content. Everyone's like inspired and engaged.
And I just feel like more and more.
There's just so much noise and lawyers and policies, all this crap.
It's like,
we're just here to like do something we love and get rewarded and pay people.
I mean, I'm stoked that, you know,
we support directly 58 families plus all our sublets and everything
else, but it's, it's hard to retain people when, when we,
we know we can't pay them what they're worth in this business environment.
We're really hard time with the whole crack thing is catching someone, stealing,
smoking crack and you can't fire them. That seems so strange.
You have to give them a week's worth of money yeah. On the spot on the spot.
So you have to cut them a check. This is.
Getting so stupid.
That seems, that seems, and you had to offer them therapy.
I mean, to be clear, I didn't catch a guy doing that. Just a general thing,
but I tell you man, more and more surf shack with like my own little garden out,
back in my little leather studio and sell on Instagram,
simplify life, me and my wife and my dogs. I know what you're saying.
I own one bay garage, but you know what?
Jamie Montana we've been.
We've been dealing with cancer. You know,
my wife got diagnosed with cancer last year and we've been in the throws of
chemo and dealing with that whole show.
You want to talk about something that puts everything into perspective?
You know, we really made us stop and sit back and go, okay, all right.
That doesn't matter. Like a lot of the,
a lot of the noise in our modern world does not matter.
Doesn't mean a thing.
So that kind of reinvigorated,
but also refresh my perspective to remind myself if someone's painting as
they're in there. Not because they're, icon's been in storage for six months,
they didn't plug it into the tender and the battery's dead and they want to call
and yell at me about it with like really like,
give me your bank and philosophy or your money back. Oh, well, no,
that is not what, okay. Then why are we interfacing like this?
You have a dead battery. You haven't been there for six months to.
That's what happens? Pick your battles. Well,
that's why the icon has a real easy way to remove the battery post.
Right. And an integrated tender if you click that box on the configurator.
Yeah.
Well, there's a lot of silly people out there for sure.
But it's just weird when they're empowered by the government. When, you know,
when you don't have a common sense approach to knuckleheads,
you know, if you, you got a guy smoking crack and stealing things,
you're not supposed to reward that kind of behavior with, uh, uh,
a week's paycheck and.
Counseling.